So, guys, now finally, we will going to discuss the last stage of the competition process, which
is called the linking stage, the input to the linking stage is a set of object files, which is produced
by the assembler.
Now, note that the object files, which is produced by the assembler, are unlinked object files.
So in this case, test dot all is an object file, which is produced by the assembler.
And this does or object file is an unlinked object file.
UNlinked object file means that this object file do not have any access to external global variables
or functions which are present in other object files.
Consider this simple example.
You have castrato object file and in this object file you are invoking the external function for this
external function.
Full is present in other object file.
That is, you can see in food court or sorry, this is food court or sorry, this file is filled out
or so in this object file you can see that there is a function implementation of the function form.
So this function full is an external function with the spot to test or object file.
And you can see intestate or object file there is an invocation of an external function.
Not only that, there is an access to the external global variable which is defined in external object
file footrot.
All right.
So when you compile test C file, it will going to create test or object file, but this test or object
file doesn't know how to invoke the external function or how to access the external global variables.
When I say external, it means the function or global variables which are present in some other object
file.
So without linking test at all, would not know how to invoke external functions such as food.
Right.
And not only that, without linking test or object file cannot even access the external global variable
which is defined somewhere else.
So linking is all about providing and access to external functions and global variables to the object
file which is being linked.
So if so, during the linking process, we will going to link the test struct or object file with food
or object file.
So that does not or object file would know how to invoke the external function or how to access that
external global variable.
So in the linker stage we create an executable.
The final product of the linker is the final executable.
Right.
And because the execution of the executable, it starts from the mean.
Therefore, exactly one object file must have a main function.
Unless the object file doesn't have a main function.
You cannot do linking.
And you can see that in the linker stage.
All the external libraries which distort or object file needs are also included in the linker.
As I said, your test or object file can invoke functions which are present somewhere else.
That is in some other external libraries.
Right.
So Linko is a process to fill up the gaps in the object files and filling up those gaps is nothing but
telling the object file how to invoke the external functions or external global variables.
So the final output of the linker stage is a final executable which can execute on your machine.
So continuing with our example, on the left hand side, we have a test or object file which is produced
by the assembler and on the right hand side, using GCSE compiler, we can now create an executable
call test or to exceed because in our test program there is already a main function.
Therefore we can create an executable.
Now our example is simple.
There is no access to any external function or global variable.
Therefore, linking with the external library is not required.
So once I trigger this command, you can see that we will end up with creating an executable, which
is to start EXI.
Now as I said earlier, that executables and all object files are produced in YALLAH format.
So using Obejas Dump Command, we can analyze the contents of the executable file also.
So let us redirect the output in time.
And if we see the content of the time, you can see that executable format is also in ELR format.
Thus the content of the executable is also organized in terms of sections.
So you can see that the most remote sections that we are aware of is the data section.
So you can see that this is the data section followed by BSR section.
Right.
So when you study program control block, we study that there are sections called Initialised or Unanalyzed
a segment.
And then there is a B as a segment.
Right.
And also, there is a tax section where all the program machine code is present, so you can see there
is a tax section in this executable file and this Astarte represent the start of the main function.
And this is a machine code for the main function.
And you can see if you move down, you can find the machine code of your functions, which is compute
square or compute circulating.
Right.
So we are in the section called text segment.
So in the executable, you can see the text section, data section and, yes, a section.
So guys, with this we have completed all the four stages of the completion process of a C program.